Auto Scaling Group: Rules for automatically scaling EC2 instances up and down.

Use EC2 for scaling Amazon Machine Image(AMI) and Use Elastic Beanstalk for scaling applications.

EC2 instances are charged by the hour.

S3 Pricing Structure(Prices differ per region)
1.Amount of data stored
2.Number of requests made to object
3.Amount of data transferred

RDS

Managed Database Aspects

Scheduled automatic backups
Simple software updates
Managed infrastructure

RDS Pricing Structure
1.Type of Database
2.Region
3.EC2 Instance Type

Elastic Beanstalk:

Application versions are stored in S3
Each application has a limit of 1000

It is a free service, you only pay for the EC2 instances, load balancers and S3 separately.

Lambda:

Only pay when your code is running.
Pay for no. of requests

DynamoDB:

Provisioned Throughput Capacity: Number of read/write units per second.

Virtual Private Cloud:
1.Configure VPC routing tables
2.Use NAT gateways for outbound traffic
3.Internal IP address allocation

VPC Security:
1.Routing Table: Control what goes where
2.Network ACL: Control who can come & go.




AWS CLI Command:

aws ec2 describe-instances : To list all EC2 instances for your account.


CloudWatch: Service to set alarms based on service metric threshold.
Examples: EC2 CPU Usage, DynamoDB Read/Write Throughput, Estimated Billing Charges


Security groups: Defines allowed incoming/outgoing IP addresses and ports.

Maximum of 5 VPC`s on one account.

Amazon Machine Image: Operating system and software installed on an EC2 instance.

Elastic IP: Public IP addresses that are created, destroyed and assigned independently.

Load Balancer: Routing appliance that maintains a consistent DNS entry and balances requests to multiple instances.

CloudFront is the best way to solve geographic latency.

AWS Budget: Alerts you when your AWS resource charges reach a certain amount.

EC2 Instance File System Types:

1. Instance Store: Physically connected, basic hard drives
2. Elastic Block Store: Independent, networked volume
3. Elastic File System: Scalable, independent, networked volume




AWS Kinesis

Realtime:
Enables you to ingest, buffer and process streaming data in real-time so you can derive insights in seocnds or minutes instead of hours or days.

AWS Managed Service:
It is fully managed and runs your streaming applications without requiring you to manage any infrastructure.

Scalable:
Can handle any amount of streaming data and process data from hundreds of thousands of sources with very low latencies.

Producer:
It puts records into Amazon Kinesis Data Streams . For example, a web server sending log data to a stream is a producer.

Retention Period:
The length of time that data records are accessible after they are added to the stream. A stream`s retention period is set to a default of 24hrs after creation,
You can increase the retention period upto 8760 hours(365 days)

Partition Key:
It is used to group data by shared within a stream.

Sequence Number:
Each data record has a sequence number that is unique per partition key within its shard.

Consumer:
It gets records from Amazon Kinesis Data Streams and process them.